
You've already seen this scene with the Shadowy Council. In short, the Chiram wouldn't share Project D, but the Elders are putting their chips on Project Ageha instead, and in fact, the Council has something else highly undiplomatic headed the Chirams' way.


Meanwhile, Setsuko and Fa have brought Reccoa something to eat. Fa wants to thank Reccoa for saving her in the last battle, but Reccoa sulks that battle is all she's good for.

reccoa: I'm sorry, Setsuko. I know you're worried about me, and here I am complaining...
setsuko: I think it's good to get it out of your system.
reccoa: I don't know. The older I get, the more talking about it just makes me sink deeper.
fa: ...
reccoa: Fa, can I ask you something? When you leapt in to protect Kamille, what was in your mind?
fa: I don't think I really had time to think before I was just doing it...
reccoa: That's for the best. You're fighting to help Kamille.
fa: Huh?
reccoa: I've lost sight of where my fight started.
setsuko: Where your fight...?
reccoa: Like how the Glory Star was for you, Setsuko. A reason for you to keep going.
setsuko: 2nd. Lt. Reccoa...
reccoa: I had one of those when I started out. A reason to join the AEUG.
reccoa: I can't remember it anymore. Living in a world with an uncertain future, fighting for something I don't even know... like swimming in a pitch-black sea.
reccoa: And before I know it, I'll have lost everything, and there'll be nothing left for me but to sink.
setsuko: You must be tired, 2nd. Lieutenant. We'll be at Gibraltar soon, so just rest until then.
reccoa: You're right. I might feel better after I get some sleep.
fa: We'll leave your food here. Don't forget to eat it.
reccoa: Thank you, both of you...
setsuko: Well, here we go.
reccoa: And once I wake up, I'll just have to fight again? For what? To survive...?
reccoa: If I survive and make it back, what'll be there for me?
reccoa: Just this empty room, with no one waiting for my return...


Outside, Setsuko and Fa meet Quattro and Kamille. Kamille was worried about Reccoa too (rightly so - Setsuko points out that she didn't even make a move for her food), but as soon as Quattro hears she's napping, he figures he'll just come back another time.

Setsuko stops him and asks him to visit her anyway - Reccoa's fatigue must be emotional in her book, not just physical. But Quattro doesn't believe he's the right person to address matters of the heart (even though Kamille thinks he is). He's afraid he'll just hurt her instead...


Anyway, Gibraltar sees us on our way in and the Chairman instructs his men to see that we're taken care of after our long journey and longer battles. Phil (sarcastically?) comments that he's got his elite team back. Durandal corrects him, saying that we are working for something other than ZAFT, something "of wider scope." Addressing the Queen suddenly, he says that we are fighting not just for ZAFT, but for the whole world. "I should certainly hope so," murmurs Diana, beatific as ever.

Some business on our side before we get to the big meeting. First, Hencken is heading off to rendezvous with Karaba before returning to outer space. Bright apologizes for not being more of a help. "Don't sweat it, my brother," grins Hencken. "I'll make do on my own." 

Meanwhile, Roberto asks Emma how [i]she's[/i] doing with this farewell thing. "It's not as though we're never going to see each other again, though," she says. 

Roberto agrees. "We'll just have to make sure we survive until then."

Reccoa is conspicuously silent.


And by the way, Horace has left, along with Mihael. Josef explains that their commander ordered them both back to Siberia. That's where Sid, Horace's old mentor, is, and if they've been deployed back there, Josef suspects that old Sid has dug something up...


[i]Now[/i] for the conference, at which Diana, to Phil's considerable dismay, refuses to work with ZAFT. Specifically, she refuses to engage with the Earth by force of arms. The only solution she's interested in is peaceful coexistence, no matter who says that the only way to claim their land is by taking it perforce.

And by the way, Durandal wasn't going to attack the Earth because he also wants those of Earth and those of Space to get along, be they Coordinator or Natural, Spacenoid or Earthnoid. Phil protests that they still need to crush the Federation first, and Diana holds that speech up to Durandal as exactly the reason she cannot approve the Moonrace and Plant forming an alliance. "Power can accomplish things, it is true. But power in excess brings danger as well." Joining forces against the opposing force of the Federation is only going to bring destruction, whatever Durandal promises, and reaching their goals by those methods is not worth the price.

Durandal understands, and Diana is still willing to use the Diana Counter to [i]help[/i] as long as Durandal works for coexistence as he says. Durandal is pleased to hear that and adjourns the meeting for the day.
Milan and Phil were sure that the prospect of such power would change Diana's mind, but she's firmer in her beliefs than they would have thought. 

However, now that business is out of the way, Durandal offers them pleasure, in the form of a relaxing performance by...


Lacus Clyne! Right?

Diana's heard Lacus' songs before, as well as her "recommendations." Durandal comments that people tend to be more receptive when his message comes from Lacus' mouth than his own. Meer stammers that she just wants to help spread that message. Diana fixes her with her gaze and asks if she enjoys singing. "O-of course I do!" Okay then.

That's not all the entertainment Durandal has planned, but Phil, the spittle now probably flying from his face, roars that they're here to gather information, not to to party. Durandal evenly replies that he is as driven as they, but Diana still politely declines the invitation. They'll pick up negotations another time. 

After they leave, Durandal muses that Diana isn't a mere puppet after all (though Meer didn't like the soldiers, herself). As far as he's concerned, though, she is not, herself, the problem standing between him and his next move. "She is a woman who lives according to her ideals - a goddess. There's nothing to be done about her. However, those who follow at her footsteps... those who refuse to see the bigger picture. They are being led to their doom."


Anyway, Talia is here with Bright, Quattro, Guin, and Loewen. Durandal says they have quite a lot to talk about...


Stella is still having her own problems, but Shinn plans to use "Lacus"' concert as cover to slip her back into Neo's hands. She needs that medicine, and he can't possibly take her to a ZAFT lab. Ray just wants to make sure Shinn plans on making it back, because if so, he's the one who'll cover for him back here. "Everyone wants to live, right?"


Bright is warning Durandal about the nature of Axis, the fact that they're the ideological descendants of Zeon and the Zabi family, and their hatred for all things Earth. And that, too, people who have lived for so long away from their home planet. "Much like Naturals and Coordinators, or Earthlings and Moonrace," muses Durandal, "coming from one source yet hating one another." Shh, Chairman! You'll give the game away!

Guin asks how the alliance with the Moonrace is going, anyway, and Durandal delivers the bad news, that they can't do anything of the sort as long as elements of Moonrace leadership still put their stock in raw power. It also means that the Queen's grip on her empire has weakened; her own soldiers don't share her ideals, and the leader still on the moon is on the move besides. They've been fighting aliens on the moon for a while, but they've also attacked anyone who gets near their space, and now they're actually ranging down to Earth. In short, there are three separate factions of the Moonrace: Gynghanam's side, the forces of the Diana Counter, and Diana herself and those who agree with her.

You know what would suck? If Gynghanam's group allied with Axis and pooled [i]their[/i] military might, which is the exact possibility [i]Lieutenant[/i] Quattro brings up (Durandal calls him "Colonel". whoops). Picking up from a thing he said to Diana, he says that he doesn't intend to make an attack against the Federation, but he does hope to have the power [i]available[/i]. That's why he's considered joining with Axis, and why he's in cahoots with Edel as well. The Brigadier General is working hard to end the war, and Durandal can't sit still himself - but the reasons why, which he is about to explain to us, are of the utmost secrecy. He'd like to see our reaction, but he's aware that merely revealing it is a dangerous gamble.

You see, the end of the world is nigh. "It will not be long before the space-time collapses and the world returns to the void..."


So here's the concert, and everyone seems to be enjoying it. Lunamaria is concerned that this Lacus seems a lot more... showy... than the Lacus she knew, but Yolan is totally okay with that.


So is Katz, who ends up crashing into Sara. She tells him to enjoy the show and leaves. Vino and Yolan call him a lucky bastard, because, anime, I guess. Katz, of course, has none of these shenanigans on his mind; he's trying to figure out what her deal is. "Does she work on this base?"


Amuro has to explain to Emma that being what Beltorchika calls a "singing spokesman" is Lacus' thing; before, it was for her father. Vino figures Kouji and Eiji would kill to be here, which is our graceful segue into the question of where are Shinn and Athrun? Well, Shinn didn't actually want to come, apparently, and right now he's back with Stella. What is his deal with that girl?
It is true that she's to be handed off to the lab here as of tomorrow, which has got to be rough on everyone involved. 

As for Athrun... no one knows for sure - he said it was "personal" - but he was engaged to Lacus once upon a time. That was in another life, though. "So Luna and Meylin are still in the running!" cries Gavan, tactlessly. Fa playfully wonders whose corner to be on.


Lest we forget, though, Kihel has in fact met the real Lacus before, and something seems different about this one...

She chirps that they've got a surprise guest today, by the way - "The symbol of Exodus, the nightingale of Siberia - the one and only Meeya Laujin!" 
Kihel's met her once too, and Josef explains that she's also a descendent of a Meeya who was the first one ever to complete an Exodus, which is where the "symbol" thing comes from.

meer: Okay, Meeya! Let's get into your number for all our brave warriors!
meeya: Well, of course, that is what I'm here for, but I need to ask you something first.
meeya: Are you really Lacus Clyne?
meer: What?
meeya: It's the oddest thing. The Lacus Clyne on my CD has something real underneath her singing voice...
meer: Well, I have been doing a rebranding--
meeya: No, not that! Something more... basic.
meeya: Like... you don't enjoy singing, do you?
meer: What are you talking about?!

Kihel figures that must be what she was picking up on. "There's nothing under her smile. Like a doll..."


However, the ZAFT soldiers do not like Meeya's attitude, and they're starting to get violent. Amuro calls for a full evacuation, but Kihel's nowhere to be seen!

[b]Chapter 34: The False Queen and the Masked Songstress[/b]


Shinn contacted the Pain via the Gaia, and Neo, no longer their commander, has come to pick her up. Stella is shaking, so they both want to do the deed quickly (Neo more so because he's in spitting distance of an enemy base), but first he asks Shinn - twice - to promise him this isn't a trap. 
ou know Shinn sincerely wants to protect Stella, and in fact, he wants Neo to promise [i]him[/i] something - "to send her back somewhere kind, far away from wars and Mobile Suits and all these dangerous things."

Neo promises, and even thanks Shinn. Shinn doesn't want thanks, though - he wants Neo to keep his word.

Now that Stella is leaving Shinn for Neo, she misses him already. "Please, Stella," says Shinn sadly. "Don't forget about me."


Anyway, Kihel has been kidnapped by Sara! She insists that she's Kihel Heim, not Queen Diana Soleil...


Teteth isn't buying it. No, she's not in cahoots with the Pain; for starters, she's looking to [i]murder[/i] the Queen, not capture her.
Sara has her gun on her, but Teteth doesn't believe for a second she'd fire it. After all, she can tell Sara has never actually shot someone, has she?

Kihel says that it's time for everyone to work together for the future rather than being trapped by their past pain. Teteth isn't listening...


but Kihel did keep her busy long enough for her bodyguard to arrive! Unfortunately, being reminded that we're people with status and a place to belong and she's not doesn't help Teteth's mood any.


Kamille and Katz arrive just in time for a shot to ring out and Teteth to collapse; Sara wails that it wasn't her.
Kamille advances on this suspicious girl with a gun who kidnapped Kihel, but Katz asks everyone to calm down. He recognizes her, and he doesn't think she's worth doing anything rash with.
He asks her name, and gives his in turn.


Jerid comes for Sara, and things get awkward really quickly. He says they're pulling out while the defenses are knocked out and ZAFT is immobilized.
Sara obeys her commander like a good soldier, but not without an "I'm sorry, Katz."
Kamille barks for Katz to stand back and Loran to take Kihel. Jerid, as usual, wants an old-fashioned MS duel. We don't have time for this!


Suddenly, Kamille falters as Scirocco arrives on the scene. Kihel instantly recognizes his presence as the one that's been watching her.
Scirocco is satisfied to have seen her in person, though. He'll be back for her, but for now, he and his people are leaving.


Katz is about to go after them, but Kamille stops him. They have someone wounded to tend to.
But Loran says it's too late for her. A woman has died over Kihel, so Kamille feels like it's officially time for him to explain to them what's he's hiding.
Kihel steps in and tells Kamille the truth: that she is the real Diana Soleil, Queen of the Moon...


And oh, by the way, Federation forces are indeed moving on the base. 
Durandal demands to know why they weren't detected. His officer tells him that the defense system has been knocked out.
That's also going to make it difficult to mobilize the guard. Bright offers to retrieve and mobilize ZEUTH until they can get set up.


Yazan and Faye both realize they may only have a short window of time to mount their offensive, and open fire.


The ZEUTH members at the concert realize they should return to the Minerva and prepare to sortie.
(Amuro, however, notices the definitely-not-a-Mobile-Suit in the enemy formation.)
Meanwhile, Meer's in her pink Zaku, I guess, but the soldier in it is preoccupied keeping her safe.


There's no time for Amuro's away team to return, but Saegusa reports that a machine is already deploying -


Reccoa's Methuss! 

bright: That's insane! Retreat, 2nd. Lieutenant! One mech isn't going to accomplish a thing!
reccoa: I can hold them off long enough for everyone else to mobilize!
reccoa: (After all, fighting is all I'm worth...)
quattro: 2nd. Lieutenant...
yazan: Heh. So they do have a mech on hand. Sucks to be the pilot.
yazan: I came for Scirocco, but I've got time for a round with you!


reccoa: I have to do the job I'm given if I want to belong!
reccoa: I have no choice, even if others... even if men made that decision for me!


Anyway, ZEUTH finally gets its resources together and scrambles its fighting force.
Faye is disappointed to see the Gran Kaiser isn't around. You know why.

quattro: That's enough, 2nd. Lt. Reccoa. Fall back.
reccoa: Not so much as a "well fought"?
setsuko: 2nd. Lt. Reccoa...
quattro: I can't believe you...


Reccoa turns around and dives right into the Phantom Pain.

fa: Reccoa!
yazan: What are you, stupid? You trying to get yourself killed?
reccoa: If all I'm worth to anyone is a weapon...
yazan: Wrong move!

[yazan's attack]

setsuko: 2nd. Lt. Reccoa!
emma: Someone recover her escape pod! Hurry!
kamille: On it!
quattro: Hold it, Kamille. We need to handle the Phantom Pain first.
kamille: What?
athrun: Lt. Quattro, but...
quattro: We're the only ones who can defend this base. Let ZAFT recover the 2nd. Lieutenant.
ray: Roger.


Meanwhile, Diana orders the Counter to fight by ZAFT. She's still not forming an alliance with the Chairman, but fighting is in their best interests.
That's the last straw for Milan and Phil. Milan declares he's assuming command of the Counter right then and there.


The Soleiyu takes off, but it's clear to ZEUTH that it's moving to escape, not to fight. 


Harry deploys to stop them. Phil orders Po to take her squad and capture Harry - or destroy him, if necessary.


ZEUTH is outside of all this infighting, so Harry explains the coup quickly to Loran and ZEUTH.
Kihel calls to Loran, demanding he get her to the Soleiyu as quickly as possible. They haven't a moment to lose.
She explains the whole switch to ZEUTH, and Loran confesses he knew as well. 
Now Kihel, who is Diana, needs to get into the Soleiyu to free Diana, who is Kihel.
She's well aware of the danger she's taking on. "I must wage my own battle for the future of the Moonrace."
Harry accepts the order. He joins Loran so they can protect and deliver the Queen together.


The Pain doesn't understand what's going on between the Counter and ZEUTH either, but Faye asserts that their only concern is ZEUTH.
Yazan agrees. "The Diana Counter is barely even a platoon. There's no point wasting ammo on them."
This puts ZEUTH in the awkward situation of covering Loran while fighting off the Phantom Pain.

loran: But my lady Diana, if you switch with Miss Kihel, you'll be in danger!
diana: I must carry this out. It is my duty as Diana Soleil.
diana: I will fight as Diana Soleil for the Moonrace. I swear on the life of Teteth Halle.
loran: Understood, my lady. I will fight beside you.

shinn: (I don't see Neo Roanoake... he must be taking Stella.)
shinn: (Please, I'm asking you. Don't make Stella fight anymore!)

setsuko: (2nd. Lt. Reccoa, please be safe. There are too many things I need to ask you!)

[vs Faye]
faye: I volunteered for the Phantom Pain to show Touga what I can do!
faye: All I can do now is show my power by destroying ZEUTH!

[Kamille vs Yazan]
yazan: Not bad! You're quite a target, you know!
kamille: Just what do you think battle is?
yazan: The most exciting game in the world... because both our lives are on the line!

[Loran vs Po]
po: The doll with the moustache! I don't know what your game is, but you're not getting near the Soleiyu!
loran: Do you even undersatnd what you're doing?
loran: You're not going to reclaim the Earth this way, and you're just going to bring the fighting back!

[Phil]
phil: We'll just slip out while the Federation and ZAFT are fighting! We'll escape whatever it takes!
diana: What do you intend to accomplish with such cowardice?
milan: Idealism itself accomplishes nothing. What we need now is power, not platitudes.
diana: (My lady Diana, I'm sorry... I was powerless...)


Jerid's kept his promise, showing up in his new transforming suit. Somehow, Katz guesses Sara's in the other machine, and she recognizes his voice.
Anyway, Jerid tells Sara she doesn't have to do anything dangerous, but Sara is intent on living up to Scirocco's expectations.

katz: Sara... is that Sara Zabirov in that Mobile Suit?
sara: Katz... is that you?
katz: You don't have to fight! What's a girl like you doing in this war, anyway?
sara: How dare you! I'm fighting because I want to!
sara: You go first! If you stand in Master Paptimus' way, I'll destroy you!
katz: Sara?!

sara: He's the one that interfered before!
kamille: So this is Sara! But she doesn't seem too used to live combat!
sara: I have to do this! I'll eliminate anyone who gets in Master Paptimus' way!
kamille: What's going on? What is it driving her to fight?

jerid: Lyla! Kacricon! You've taken too many of my dear friends' lives!
kamille: I didn't want to, but I didn't want to die, either!
jerid: I don't care what you want! I have to defeat you to move on!


yazan: Dammit! I can't see all the way around with these monitors! I'm out!

faye: This isn't what the Gran Trooper is for!
faye: Falling back!

jerid: Dammit! And Scirocco is watching, too!

sara: So this is real battle... I'm so very sorry, Master Scirocco, but I have to retreat!


Loran finally makes it to the Soleiyu. Phil believes he intends to attack the bridge, but -


Kihel insists that she's the real Diana in the face of the Queen. Phil refuses to accept the "Earth girl," but Milan can tell the real Diana's force of presence.
When Loran arrives to pick her up, though, Kihel goes along at Diana's urging. This is her battlefield now.
Though by Milan's judgment, it doesn't matter who's the real one as long as they have a Diana...


Outside, both the Soleiyu and the Phantom Pain (not that there should be any left after the SR Point, but they say it anyway) make their retreat.
So much for the ZAFT/Moonrace alliance, but Loran and Harry assure Kihel that she did just what Diana would have done.
Harry declares that they must stop the Soleiyu and save Diana, but Loran knows that she has her fight - and he has his.


Meeya saw the whole thing and can't believe she bought an orange from Queen Diana Soleil at the market.
Her manager Luble is furious with her for wrecking the concert, but after all, she only went because Lacus Clyne would be there.
"But I'm sure that one will be able to sing when she finds something important to her."


Midgard is also furious that not only did his agent fail to assassinate the Queen, but she's back on the Soleiyu!


Just then, Mauer and Scirocco catch up to him. Scirocco recognizes the uniform of a Moonrace, but if he's not with the Counter, he must be working for Agrippa or Gynghanam.
Either way, he'll make a useful bargaining chip.


Back on the Minerva, Kihel tells the whole story of how she's been switched with Diana since before the Break.
Guin wishes all the rhetoric about coexistence had been the real Diana, but Kihel says that all she said was what she was sure the real Diana would.


Bright and Talia would like to hear more from Harry and Kihel, but Harry warns them that he will be speaking with the discretion of a Moonrace agent.


You'd think Sochie would be mad at Loran for keeping such a big secret from her this whole time, but she understands that her sister would have been in danger. 
Besides, that very sister was the Queen of the Moon for a while. That's so cool!


Setsuko realizes that we've been making the actual Queen of the Moon clean and do laundry. Whoops! But Loran says he thinks she did it out of joy.
Beltorchika, on the other hand, wonders if they have any pictures of her for later. Won't that be a scoop when we can finally tell everyone! 


Luna and Meylin asks Loran what the Queen was really like, since he was the only one she'd show her real self to.
Loran says she's a person with feelings just like all of us. "I think that's why she wants peace between the Earth and Moon."
Silently, he asks Teteth to believe in her as well. "Lady Diana grieved for you. That's what makes me believe in her."


And oh, by the way, Kamille is down because they haven't found Reccoa.

quattro: We don't know we've lost her. ZAFT is looking for her as well.
setsuko: Is that all you have to say for her?
setsuko: 2nd. Lt. Reccoa pushed herself, sacrificed herself...
setsuko: Because she wanted you, Lt. Quattro, to notice her...
kamille: Setsuko is right. Lt. Quattro, you knew what 2nd. Lt. Reccoa was going through.
quattro: I told you, not everyone has the right to intrude on matters like that.
kamille: What do you see behind those sunglasses of yours?
kamille: Diana Soleil has returned to her position to fulfill her duty, but you...
quattro: So you know who I was, Kamille...
kamille: I had my suspicious about you.
kamille: Seeing you and Amuro together made me certain. You're...
quattro: I'm Quattro Bajeena now. Nothing more, nothing less.
kamille: What kind of adult are--
amuro: That's enough, Kamille.
kamille: Why, Amuro? Doesn't this bother you too?
amuro: ...
quattro: ...
athrun: Lt. Quattro...
quattro: Clean up here, Athrun. I need to deliver my report on 2nd. Lt. Reccoa to Captain Bright.
athrun: Fine.

shinn: Where does he get off?
athrun: Leave it, Shinn. Quattro has a lot on his mind.
shinn: I bet he does! Is being a grown-up all about making excuses like that?
shinn: I give up! Seeing Lt. Quattro like that was...
amuro: (Between that Four girl and Axis' approach, Char's under a lot of stress...)
amuro: (Could 2nd. Lt. Reccoa tell?)
setsuko: Lt. Amuro, we're going to search for 2nd. Lt. Reccoa.
lunamaria: She may have drifted from the point she ejected from. Let's find her!
shinn: My Core Splendor is faster. I'll get approval from Captain Gladys!


Not so fast, though. Arthur's discovered that Stella's missing.
There's no way she could have left on her own, so someone must have taken her out.
Shinn confesses, and Arthur takes him away for questioning...


Faye is asking Scirocco for a transfer. The Gran Trooper is for defeating aliens, not other humans.
"If you ask me," says Scirocco, "being a symbol of all humanity means it should be used to cull the undesirable of humanity."
Still, he transfers her to another squad following the other part of ZEUTH.
"You may even get permission to engage." He smiles. "To show the Gran Trooper is better than Gravion... or should I say, that you are better than Touga Tenkuuji."
Faye's glad, but also shocked. The details of the Trooper's development were an AAA-class top secret. Is Scirocco more than just Jamitov's man?


She leaves to be replaced by Yazan, who has succesfully recovered "the AEUG woman." Is Scirocco planning to question her?
No - she's a woman who could sense his presence. He has a "more fitting job for her" in mind.
"She'll be among the women who reforge the world. And the one that stands over them all, the Queen, will join me soon enough."
Yazan doesn't care; all he cares about is his ZEUTH prey. Good, says Scirocco - they're up to him and Jerid after he and the Queen return to space.
If that's so, then Yazan is going to need a better machine than the Gaplan. Scirocco is happy to give him one, but first, they have something very important to do in Ameria.
The Federation, right? Where Scirocco has already sent Neo to be the spark that lights the flame.
"And when it burns, humanity will have taken another step forward. Operation Crusade, when the righteous one guides the world to a better future."